Let's get started with our test implementation.
So step one, put together these set up function.
We're going to have to create an instance of the listener at the very top.
So let's import our ticket created listener.
From up one directory to get created a listener.
Then right after that comment, we'll say listener.
Is a new ticket created?
Listener Whenever we create an instance of a listener, we are required to pass in a Nats client.
Now you might recall a little bit ago we had set up the Mocs folder inside the CRC directory.
So we've got a mock around Nats wrapper right here.
So this right here is our mock.
It is only used inside the test environment and this is essentially our fake client.
So we're going to provide this to our instance of ticket created listener.
We're going to add in another import statement up here for Nat's wrapper from up to directories or maybe
three directories.
Yep, three directories.
And then we'll pass.
And that's rapper client.
That looks good.
Next up, we're going to create a fake data event or really data object.
So this needs to be something that satisfies this data argument.
That's the first argument to the on message function inside of the ticket created listener.
So in other words, the fake data object needs to satisfy the interface ticket created events, or more
specifically, the data piece of that interface.
So we could either look up that interface definition by doing a command click, or there's a little
trick we could use to help ourselves out.
Back inside my test file at the very top, I'm going to import that ticket created event.
From my common module.
And then where we're going to create the fake data event, I'll say Colin's data, and then I'm going
to annotate this variable right away as ticket related event, specifically the data property.
If I then set that equal to an empty object, I can then hover over data.
And TypeScript is going to give us some hints on how we could satisfy that interface.
So we need to specifically provide an ID as a string, a version as a number, title price, user ID
and so on.
So we'll fill in some of those properties right here.
We're just going to make up some properties on the fly, more or less.
First, I'll give it a version of zero.
I'll give it an ID.
And the ID we provide here does have to be a real ID because we're going to eventually take this ID
and use it to save a new ticket to our local database.
So it has to be a legitimate MongoDB ID.
That means we're going to have to generate an ID.
So at the very top I am going to import Mongoose.
From Mongoose and then I'll generate the ID by putting in new mongoose types.
Object ID to hex string like so.
Then our title I'll put in concert for Price ten.
And then a user ID and we're not really using the user ID anywhere.
Nonetheless, let's provide a real user ID as well.
So a real mongo ID.
So I'm going to copy that.
Object ID and throw it down.
Assign it to user ID.
Now we'll notice that TypeScript is happy we have created a valid looking data object.
Cool.
Next up, we need to create a fake message object.
To create this fake message object, we're going to use a similar trick where we're going to create
a variable called message and we'll annotate its type and then TypeScript will jump in and help us create
the proper looking object.
So I'll say const MSG is of type message.
And I'm going to import the message type at the top of the file as well from the node net streaming
library.
So at the very top.
Message from node nats streaming.
Once again, TypeScript is going to give us an edge right here and tell us that there's a bunch of different
properties we need to define now in the context of our listener, or specifically the on message function.
We do not care about the vast majority of these different functions, and I don't really want to have
to provide a fake implementation for each of them just to get TypeScript to be happy with the code we're
writing here.
So we're going to just do a little cheat once again.
We're going to use that.
Yes.
Ignore helper or the little comment to tell TypeScript.
Hey, don't sweat it.
Just pretend that this thing is a message even if we do not implement the message correctly.
So now that error goes away, and if I hover over message, TypeScript says, okay, I give up your
right.
Whatever.
It's a message.
In total, there's really only one function on this message object that we care about.
And if we go back over to the listener, we can see that it is the act function.
That's the only thing we really care about existing on the message at all.
So we're going to implement a fake function.
We're going to make it a just mock.
So remember, a mock function is essentially a function that's going to keep track of how many times
it gets called and what arguments it is provided.
And it's really useful for whenever we are testing something just to make sure that a function actually
gets invoked.
So inside the message object we will assign EQ as gest fn.
Now, as far as TypeScript is concerned, this is a real message object.
It has the one function that we really care about.
And when we pass this into our on message function inside of our listener, whenever we call ACX, we're
going to actually invoke that mock function.
And since it is a mock function, it's going to be really easy for us to test it and make sure that
it got called at least once.
Okay.
So that's pretty much it for our set up function.
Now last thing we're going to do is take the listener, take data and take message.
And we will return all them at the bottom.
So inside of an object, I'm going to return all the center data and MSG.
Cool.
Now we can move down to our actual tests.
We will first call the setup function at the very top and get the listener that we have already created
data and MSG and that will all come from a weight set setup.
Now again, we are not actually doing anything async in nature inside of setup, but we will eventually
not actually inside this test file.
But in another one we will.
So I'm just going to throw on this the async keyword right away, even though again, not really anything
async inside of here.
No big deal.
Okay.
So now we can just follow these comments very easily.
All we have to do is call the on message, function on the listener, and when we do so, we're going
to pass in data and message.
We'll then write out an assertion to make sure that a ticket was actually created.
So I will do and await listener on message and I'll pass in data and message like so.
Now, in theory, if we go back to our listener, we can really imagine what's going to go on behind
the scenes.
This on message function is going to take the ID of that data object the title in the price.
Use that all to build up a new ticket, save it to the database and then act the message.
So if you want to now write out an assertion, we should be able to write out a query that's going to
find some ticket inside the database with the ID that we had provided.
And then we could simply write out some assertion and say, Hey, let's make sure this ticket actually
exists.
So back inside of our test file.
In order to run a query against the ticket collection, we need to import our model file.
So at the very top, we will import.
Take it from up three directories models ticket.
And then at the bottom of our test.
I'll say ticket is a wait ticket.
Find buy ID.
We're going to try to find a ticket with the same ID that we had randomly generated and stuck into that
data object right there.
So we'll put in data ID.
And then finally we can expect ticket to be defined.
Maybe I will also expect the ticket's title.
To equal the data object's title just to make sure this thing actually uses the appropriate properties.
And let's make sure the price gets carried over as well.
Data price as usual, TypeScript is not sure if we actually found a record here as usual.
Exclamation, exclamation.
If that fails right there, that is fantastic.
We kind of want that to fail.
We want to see something say, hey, ticket isn't defined, it's actually equal to null.
So let's save this and try running these tests back at my terminal.
I'm going to change into the orders directory.
Now, just so you know, we do actually have some other broken tests inside the orders project right
now.
Turns out that a while ago we had added in something to allow us to pass in an ID and we never actually
updated any of our tests to accommodate for that.
So we're probably going to end up seeing some kind of error here.
Totally fine.
But nonetheless, let's just run our tests and at least make sure that the tests for these listener
are passing, even if some other ones are failing.
All right.
So let's see what happens here.
It looks like we definitely have some failing.
We will fix those very shortly.
But most importantly, it looks like the listener test is working as expected.
Just to make sure.
I'll come back over and I'll try replacing about the data title here with some gibberish just to make
sure that this test will fail.
And if I rerun that.
Yep.
Looks like that one will definitely fail.
Cool.
So that looks good.
So that's our first working test.
Let's take a quick pause right here.
We'll come back the next video.
We're going to fix up this test down here or put it implementation together.
And then we will also take care of some of these failing tests as well.